---
title: STEM User Manual - Chapter 3
description: STEM software project creation
date: 2023-04-08
tags:
  - STEM software
  - STEM User manual
  - FAQ
  - STEM Training courses
  - Technical support
  - eleventy
layout: layouts/post.njk
---


# 3	Project Setup
The project option enables users to create a project to log all the calculations within a project folder. Users can create a new project or open an existing project to run and /or update as required.

## 3.1	Creating a new Project
To build a new project, click on **File, Create New** from the File menu bar. A new project page view will be displayed.

_Figure 3: New Project page_

HOLD Figure3

The user then enters the following project data:
* **Project Name:** the title of the project, for example, RAILX Project,
* **Project Type:** the title of the project, for example, ‘new rail transport project’,
* **Abbreviation:** the project abbreviation, for example, ‘RX100’
* **Project Description:** details the project description. For example, if you are preparing a RAM Project for a Rail system, enter RAIL RAM Project
* **Project Destination:** the destination of the project.

**Tip**

You can change the project workspace location by clicking on the triple dot icon in the right-hand corner of the project destination field.
## 3.2	Opening an existing Project
When you open existing projects in STEM, the data will be displayed in a new screen.

To open an existing case, select one of the following:
* click on ***Open Project*** from the file menu bar, or  
* Type the shortcut CRTL + O

The project list view is displayed. User can select the project by clicking the required row.

_Figure 4: Opening the STEM project page_

HOLD Figure4

S

## 3.3	Saving a Project
STEM software is online tool that does not have a specific save feature as the project information is automatically saved to the Cloud. When you save an existing project in STEM, all data associated with your current Apps will be saved in the cloud.


## 3.4	Export a Project Report

A project report summary can be generated by the user for their records.
To export the report, click on ***File, <u>E</u>xport Report*** on the File menu bar or select shortcut CRTL + E.




## 3.5	Create a snapshot
To create a snapshot of the current page, click on ***File, Snapshot*** on the File menu bar or select shortcut CRTL + S. The message “Snapshot created successfully” and file path will be displayed in a message box.

Insert figure

## 3.7	License
To obtain information on the Software License, click on ***About*** on the File menu bar or select shortcut CRTL + A.
The STEM software License information is displayed.



## 3.8	Help
To obtain specific information on the Software, click on ***Help***, on the File menu bar and select ***About*** from the pull-down menu.

add figure

## 3.9	Software Version
To obtain information on the Software version, click on ***Help***, on the File menu bar and select ***About*** from the pull-down menu.
